Clone the repo for this assignment onto your local machine:

git clone https://github.com/marlinroberts21/small-mouse-903.git

Make sure your Docker Desktop is running.

Open the repo in VSCode.

If not already installed, search for and install the Docker extension published by Microsoft.

If not already installed, search for and install the Remote Development extension published by Microsoft.

Open the extension from the icon for it.

You should see a pane for images and containers currently on your system.

Build the image with the build command executed from your project directory:

docker build -f dockerfile . -t web-server-test

You should see a new image listed on the left named web-server-test

The dockerfile specified to copy the files server.py and index.html to a directory called server in your image.

Use the Docker run command to create and run a container from the image. 

docker run -d -it -p 8000:80 --name web-server-test web-server-test

You should see a new container called web-server-test in the docker pane on the left. It should be in a running state.

The container is running, but our dockerfile did not specify to execute the server.py, so our web server is not yet running.

Now we will connect to our container with VSCode.

Right-click on the running container and choose Attach Visual Studio Code.

A new instance of VSCode will start, opening the container in the working directory specified in the dockerfile. This should be called /server and it will contain the two files our dockerfile specified to copy. If it does not open in the server directory with our two files, go to open folder in VSCode. If it opens the root directory, click on the .. at the top of the list. Now look for a directory called server and open that.

Open a new terminal in VSCode from the Terminal menu from the top. This terminal should open on the container in the /server directory. 

Execute our simple server in the terminal:

python3 server.py

You should see:

Server started http://0.0.0.0:80

Now on your local machine, open: http://localhost:8000/

This should show the Hello World message contained in our index.html

You can stop the server from the container terminal window with CTRL^C 

Submit a screenshot of your entire VSCode window showing in the bottom left-hand corner that you are connected to the container.

In the bottom left-hand corner of VSCode you will see a blue message area saying you are connected to a container.

Click on this blue bar and a command palet will appear at the top of VSCode.

Click on Close Remote Connection. 

Shut down your container with:

docker stop web-server-test







